So let's work on handlebars now,
for now without the layout.
So let's go to the add-product.html page and copy that over into a add-product.hbs
file, like this.
Now this is now our add product page,
this is all looking good,
now let's output the page title dynamically and we're not using a layout for now, I will show you how
this would work in a second too,
so let's add the page title, active class should here be on add product,
no need to assign this conditionally because we're in the add product.hbs file anyways here, this
is not in the layout.
And now let's also go down there,
this should all of course still work,
so this was pretty straightforward I guess.
So if we now save this and click on add product, this should work and this is now rendered by handlebars because
that is our view engine.
Now let's go to the shop.html file and let's copy all that code here and add a shop.hbs
file here, add that code here, the
title becomes shop or better dynamically output page title. And now the interesting part of course is
here in the main section, there we can comment in this code,
so let's remove the comment tags here
and now I want to loop through all the articles and then of course also change the image here, this
is still the old not working image,
let's take that new image link I added in the pug template,
so let's move that into here too, like that.
And with it added, let's now repeat this article for all the products we have and show no products found
text
if we got no products and for this we need to use a new handlebars index which you obviously don't know yet.
Maybe you explored it in the official docs, otherwise let's add it together here.
First of all there is an if helper, you still add your double curly braces here
but then you add a hashtag for special block statements, block statements simply are statements which
are not just outputting some text but which actually wraps some content that should be output conditionally
or in a loop,
here we can then add the if keyword and check if prods.length is greater than zero.
So it's the same condition as in the pug template,
just the syntax is a bit different.
Now we want to output this article or actually not the article, the entire grid,
so let's actually switch that, the entire grid here,
let's indent this, indentation here
doesn't matter but makes it easier to read.
Here we want to wrap this
and now we want to close that block at the end and we do that with a closing statement where we also have
if here, by the way if here also has to sit next to the hashtag.
So this opens an if block with the condition, then this content is only rendered if that condition is
met
and then we close it.
Now of course we also want to have an else block so let's add this here too, hashtag else is then the
key and there we simply put the content we want output
if the condition is not met, no products found. With that let's save that and let's go back to the shop
and we get an error.
The problem we have here is that handlebars doesn't actually support statements like this,
it just supports the output of keys that yield true or false.
Now this means that we have to move that logic from the template into our node express code and pass
the result of this check into the template.
So we would go to shop.js and there, we actually add a new key value pair we pass into the template,
has products maybe
and this simply holds a value which is the result of our check here, products,
so this products array here length greater 0.
So now we just pass this key in there which is true or false,
the result of this check and this is a core difference to pug already besides that html thing. Here
in handlebars,
we can't run any logic in our handlebars template,
we just can output single property, single variables and their value and we can only use these in if blocks
too.
So here I can now check if has product is true because this is now the data I pass into this template
and this actually also has a positive side,
it might sound very complex but it forces us to put all our logic into the node express code where
our logic typically should live and keep our templates lean because if you put too much logic in your
templates, it can be hard to understand your code because you always have to check both, your express
code and your templates
otherwise you know the template is really just about displaying stuff,
the logic always happens in node express.
So these are two kinds of philosophies,
it's up to you to choose your favorite but this is how express handlebars or how handlebars in general
handles this.
So now with this change, we can reload this page and now we just have a problem with else here
but that is just that it's not
#else, just else, just the else keyword
my mistake,
so now if I reload,
we have no products found
and if I do add my first book here, we do actually see that.
However this of course is not the values we have in our products array,
we have some hardcoded data here because I still have to add a block where we loop through all products.
And this is done with an each block statement with #each
and then you pass in an array, prods in our case.
So now prods is passed into this loop and now in there, this element is repeated for each element
and we also have to close this with /each
after we're done repeating our code.
So now this block of html code is repeated for every product.
The question now just is how can we access this product and here handlebars
also gives us only one way,
it gives us the this keyword which refers to the element in the array for the current iteration,
so to each product. So therefore we can output this title here
for example because this will always refer to one product and one product still is a javascript object
as stored in the array here in the admin.js file, an object with a title key.
So now if we save this and we reload this page,
now we see first book here because this is the title we assigned.
So this is now how handlebars works and it's really important that you understand this different philosophy
of having less logic in the template, more logic in the node express code,
so you have to prepare everything there so that in the template, you don't have to write any javascript
expressions.
Therefore this is
now the project converted to handlebars
except for one thing and that is of course the layout.